---
speakerfirst: Jonas
speakerlast: Frey
date: 2022-05-21 15:00
speakeraffiliation: Carnegie Mellon University
title: Characterizing clan-algebraic categories
---

Clans [2] provide a categorical notion of dependent algebraic theory that can be seen as syntax-free abstraction of Cartmell’s generalized algebraic theories and as such is closely related to concepts like contextual categories and categories with families.
Viewed as algebraic theories, clans are equally expressive as finite-limit theories but contain more information: the same finite-limit theory can have representations by different clans, and in particular different clans can have the same category of Set-models. The additional information encoded in a clan T gives rise to a weak factorization system (E,F) on the locally finitely presentable category Mod(T) (first considered by Henry), from which the clan can be reconstructed up to Morita equivalence.

In this talk I will present a bi-equivalence between a 2-category of clans, and a 2-category of “clan-algebraic categories”: these are locally finitely presentable categories equipped with a weak factorization system satisfying an exactness condition.  This characterization of clan-algebraic categories can be seen as a generalization of the characterization of *algebraic categories* as “exact cocomplete categories that are generated by perfectly presentable objects” given in [1].

1. Adámek, Jiří, Jiří Rosický, and Enrico Maria Vitale. *Algebraic theories: a categorical introduction to general algebra.* Vol. 184. Cambridge University Press, 2010.
2. Joyal, André. *Notes on clans and tribes.* arXiv preprint [arXiv:1710.10238](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.10238) (2017).
