---
title: "Women in EuroProofNet"
layout: single
permalink: /women-epn-2022/
author_profile: true
breadcrumbs: true
---

## June 24, 2022

Co-located with [1st dedukti School](../dedukti-school-2022) and [TYPES 2022](https://types22.inria.fr/), there will be a half-day event dedicated to gender balance in the community.
The event will consist of an invited talk and a few contributed talks by women to promote their research and improve their visibility. The talks will be followed by a discussion on gender balance issues, subconscious biases that occur and what we can do to improve the situation.

**People of all genders are invited to participate in the event and the discussion**.

## Important dates

* Abstract submission: May 15 2022
* Author notification: May 20 2022
* Funding application deadline: May 22 2022
* Registration deadline: TBA
* Event: June 24 2022

## Invited Speaker

[Delia Kesner](https://www.irif.fr/~kesner/), Université Paris-Cité, France

## Call for contributions

# Submissions

* Abstract submission deadline: May 16 2022
* Author notification: May 20 2022

The contributed talks are meant as a platform to disseminate research done by women in the community. Only women (including transgender women) are invited to submit a contributed talk.
Submissions should consist of a title and a 1-2 pages abstract, in pdf format, via [easychair](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=wepn2022).

Considering the broad background of the expected audience, we encourage authors to include information of pedagogical value in their abstract, such as motivation and context of their work.

## Organization

### Venue

LS2N, Université de Nantes, Faculté des Sciences et Techniques (FST), Bâtiment 34, 2 Chemin de la Houssinière, 44322 Nantes, France.


### Registration

Registration on the [TYPES 2022 web site](https://types22.inria.fr/).

Registration deadline: TBA.

<!--Please contact xxx if you have any problem during the registration process.-->


### Funding applications deadline: May 22

EuroProofNet can fund the travel to Nantes and the accommodation for
June 24-25 of about 40 participants with a daily allowance fixed at
120 euros. If you want to attend Women in EuroProofNet and the
[Dedukti school](../dedukti-school-2022) and be reimbursed, you need
to provide an estimation of your travel cost to
**frederic.blanqui(a)inria.fr**. The action members who will be
reimbursed will be chosen by taking into account the following
criteria in order: importance wrt the research coordination
objectives; inclusive target countries; age; gender; team with low
resources; balance over the action life time between people, teams,
countries and working groups.


### Program

The event is scheduled as a half-day meeting.

Tentative program schedule (subject to change):


| Time      | Session |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| 09:00-09:10      | Opening & Welcome     |
| 09:15-10:15   | Invited talk       |
| 10:15-10:30 | _Coffee Break_ |
| 10:30-11:30 | Session 1: contributed talks |
| 11:30-12:30 | Session 2: contributed talks |
| 12:30-13:30 | Discussion on gender balance issues |
| 13:30-14:30 | lunch |

The workshop is followed by the [1st Dedukti school](../dedukti-school-2022).


### Organizing committee

* [Sandra Alves](https://www.dcc.fc.up.pt/~sandra/Home/Home.html)
* [Anja Petković Komel](https://anjapetkovic.com/)
